# 5-1: Backups and Restoring Data with tar

## Overview
- 3 kinds of backups and its use-cases
- Create backup using tar(archive from existing files/dir)
- Search the contents of an existing archive.
- Extract the contents of an archive.
- Describe and demonstrate two ways to exploit the tar command.


## 3 kinds of backups

## Archive with tar

## Introduction to tar command

## Performing a backup

### DEMO - Run the tar Command

## Compressing archives with gzip

## Restoring Data with tar

### CASE STUDY - Backing up Hackensack

### DEMO - Medical Center Scenario

### ACTIVITY - Creating and Restoring Data with tar
In this activity, you will use the tar command to create backups and restore lost files

#### Part 1 Walkthrough
1. Move to the ~/Documents/epscript directory.
```
$ cd ~/Documents/epscript
```

2. List the epscript directory contents and answer the following question:
What directories and files are located there?
```
$ ls -l
total 24
drwxr-xr-x 2 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 backup
drwxr-xr-x 2 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 doctors
drwxr-xr-x 4 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 emergency
drwxr-xr-x 2 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 patients
drwxr-xr-x 5 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 testenvir
drwxr-xr-x 3 sysadmin sysadmin 4096 Oct 21  2022 treatments
```

3. Prepare the directory for backup by standardizing the filenames:
- Your department uses the ISO 8601 standard for representing the date in the naming convention for all archives.
-- Using the standard for representing the date, YYYY-MM-DD, allows sysadmins to locate an archive quickly.
-- Use the date May 5, 2019 and convert it to the ISO 8601 format without dashes.
- Add the filename epscript.tar to the end of the ISO 8601 date.
- What will be the archive name?
```
20230410-epscript.tar
```

4. Write a tar command that creates an archive with the following characteristics:
- Recall that [ISO_8601_date]epscript.tar is the archive file name.
- The file backup will include the epscript directory and includes all directories and files contained within it.
- File permission, owner, size, and date and time information are recorded for each file in the archive.
- The archive is verified after writing it, in order to validate the integrity of the data. Hint: This is a new option. See the man page.
- The output from the tar command is written to the file [archive_name].txt for later review by the SysOps team to check file structure, permissions, and errors.
-- Note: archive_name is the tar archive name you created using [ISO_8601_date]epscript.tar.
```
tar cvvWf 20230410-epscript.tar epscript/ > 20230410-epscript.txt
c                           -> compress
vv                          -> very verbose
W                           -> verify archives after writing
f                           -> archive filename
20230410-epscript.tar       -> archive name
epscript/                   -> dir to be archived
20230410-epscript.txt       -> save the output of tar cmd
```

5. Using the less command, review the output of the .txt file. What is displayed in the output file?
```
$ less 20230410-epscript.txt
drwxr-xr-x sysadmin/sysadmin 0 2022-10-21 01:20 epscript/
drwxr-xr-x sysadmin/sysadmin 0 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/treatments/
drwxr-xr-x sysadmin/sysadmin 0 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/treatments/backup/
-rw-r--r-- sysadmin/sysadmin 409600 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/treatments/backup/10May2019-235536-0700.tar
drwxr-xr-x sysadmin/sysadmin      0 2022-10-21 01:20 epscript/testenvir/
drwxr-xr-x sysadmin/sysadmin      0 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/testenvir/doctor/
-rw-r--r-- sysadmin/sysadmin   3749 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/testenvir/doctor/doctors.18.csv
-rw-r--r-- sysadmin/sysadmin   3803 2022-10-21 01:19 epscript/testenvir/doctor/doctors.20.csv

```

#### Part 2: Restoring Backups with tar
#### Instructions

1. Move to the ~/Documents/epscript/backup directory.
```
~/Documents/epscript/backup
```
2. List the contents of the directory to display the 20190814epscript.tar file. You will search this archive for the missing patient data.
```
~/Documents/epscript/backup$ ls -l
total 792
-rw-r--r-- 1 sysadmin sysadmin 807936 Oct 21  2022 20190814epscript.tar

```

3. Extract the patient directory from the 20190814epscript.tar archive.
- Extract patient data to the patient_search directory in the ~/Documents/epscript/backup directory.
```
$ mkdir patient_search
```
- Test for any errors when extracting. This will check the integrity of the archive.
```
$ tar xvvf 20190814epscript.tar -C patient_search/ epscript/patients
| Command  | Explanation | 
| ---------|-------------|
| tar      | command     |
| x        | extract     |
| vv       |


```

4. List the contents of the patient_search directory to check that the patient directory and files were extracted there.

#### Bonus
5. View the specific patient directory and file information contained within the archive.
- Use grep to find the following two patient's file information located in the archive:
-- Mark Lopez
-- Megan Patel




## Incremental Backups with tar

### DEMO -  Incremental Backup

### ACTIVITY - Restoring Data with Incremental Backups
In this activity, you and a partner will work as junior admins tasked with restoring the incremental backup of the patient files in a test environment. 


## Using Wildcard with tar

## Exploiting tar

### DEMO - Exploiting tar

### ACTIVITY - Exploiting tar
- In this activity, you will play the role of a penetration tester hunting for vulnerabilities in a target system backup procedure.
- Use the wildpwn.py tool to verify the vulnerability, then research two mitigation strategies to protect the server. 















